Vault Guide v1 (#9772)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/src/main/server/vault.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Using Kubernetes Secrets"
summary="Learn how to use Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets in Keycloak"
priority=30
includedOptions="vault vault-*">

> Keycloak supports a file based vault implementation for Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets. Mount Kubernetes secrets into the Keycloak Container, and the data fields will be available in the mounted folder with a flat-file structure.

Reviewer: Should we cover environment variables approach as well? From memory I think it supports either right?

> Keycloak supports a file based vault implementation for Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets. Mount Kubernetes secrets as data volumes, and they appear in a directory with a flat-file structure. Keycloak represents each secret as a file with the file’s name as the secret name and the file’s content as the secret value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keycloak supports a file based vault implementation for Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets. Mount Kubernetes secrets into the Keycloak Container, and the data fields will be available in the mounted folder with a flat-file structure.
```

== Available integrations
You can use Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets for the following use-cases:

> * Obtain the SMTP Mail server Password

Reviewer: DB as well right?

* Obtain the LDAP Bind Credential when using LDAP-based User Federation
* Obtain the OIDC identity providers Client Secret when integrating external identity providers

== Enabling the vault
Enable the file based vault by building Keycloak using the following build option:

<@kc.build parameters="--vault=file"/>

== Setting the base directory to lookup secrets
Kubernetes / OpenShift secrets are basically mounted files, so you have to configure a directory for these files to be mounted in:

<@kc.start parameters="--vault-dir=/my/path"/>

== Realm-specific secret files

> Kubernetes / OpenShift Secrets are used per-realm basis in Keycloak, so there's a naming convention for the file in place:

Reviewer 2: I think we need to explain a little better how to name the `data` fields into the Secrets, since it can be quite challenging to align all the strings to match.
Here you have an example with a working configuration:
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SSOSUP-105?focusedCommentId=19404192&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-19404192
